= TotalSpaces - Ruby API bindings for TotalSpaces from BinaryAge

== 2013-02 At present this is pre-release, there is no public version of TotalSpaces containing the API.

This gem enables you to get information from and to control {TotalSpaces}[link:http://totalspaces.binaryage.com]

It is the officially supported way of using the API library libtotalspacesapi, and the required dylib 
comes bundled with this gem. This gem uses {Ruby-FFI}[link:https://github.com/ffi/ffi] to call the functions in the dylib.
You'll need a sane ruby and compilation environment to install ruby-ffi - it probably won't install immediately with the
ruby that comes with Mountain Lion because none of the compilation tools are present. We use {homebrew}[link:http://mxcl.github.com/homebrew/]
and {rbenv}[link:https://github.com/sstephenson/rbenv/] to manage our ruby scripting environment.
{This simple guide}[link:http://jacobswanner.com/2012/07/13/ruby-1-9-3-without-gcc.html] may help if you are new to this.

You may use this gem in various ways. For instance, you could:

* Display a message or alert when a particular space is moved to

* Automatically change the name of spaces depending on what apps are in them

* Record which spaces certain windows are on, and restoring those windows to those spaces when the owning app restarts

* Trigger moving certain windows between spaces

API support, and support for this gem starts with TotalSpaces v1.1.4. The API is a premium feature,
and will only work with registered versions of TotalSpaces.

== Download and installation

The latest version of the TotalSpaces gem can be installed with RubyGems:

  % [sudo] gem install totalspaces

Source code can be downloaded on GitHub

* https://github.com/binaryage/totalspaces-api


== Documentation

{module TotalSpaces}[link:http://binaryage.github.io/totalspaces-api/ruby/rdoc/TotalSpaces.html]

== Examples
   require 'totalspaces'
   
   TotalSpaces.on_space_change {|from, to| puts "Moving from space #{from} to space #{to}";}

   TotalSpaces.move_to_space(1)

   current_space = TotalSpaces.current_space
   puts "Current space number: #{current_space}"
   puts "Current space is called: #{TotalSpaces.name_for_space(current_space)}"

   TotalSpaces.set_name_for_space(1, "Home")

== License

The TotalSpaces gem is released under the MIT license:

* http://www.opensource.org/licenses/MIT

The source code of the dylib is not available at this time.


== Support and feature requests

* http://support.binaryage.com
